=pod

=head1 NAME

 xde-bl-applet - a backlight system tray applet

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 xde-bl-applet [ OPTIONS ]
 xde-bl-applet --quit [ OPTIONS ]
 xde-bl-applet --replace [ OPTIONS ]
 xde-bl-applet --help [ OPTIONS ]
 xde-bl-applet --version
 xde-bl-applet --copying

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xde-bl-applet> is a small system-tray and dock-app applet that can be
used to control the back light of an LED panel, the brightness of a
display, and the color temperature (blue light filtration) of the
display.  The state of all back-lights and LEDs are displayed in a
tool-tip pop-up and the overall state of the lights is shown in a status
icon.  It also can be used to play sound theme specific sounds
associated with changes to the display.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

None.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are accepted:

=head2 COMMAND OPTIONS

When specified, the following options alter the primary operating mode
of the program:

=over

=item [B<--monitor>, B<-m>]

When no command is specified, the default is to run the applet without
replacing an existing instance.  It is an error if an instance is
currently running.

=item B<--replace>, B<-r>

Run the applet, but replace a running instance of the applet.  It is not
an error when no instance is currently running.

=item B<--restart>, B<-S>

Ask a running instance to restart.  It is an error if there is no
instance currently running.  This is useful when the binary has been
upgraded.

=item B<--quit>, B<-q>

Ask a running instance of the applet to quit.  It is not an error if no
instance is currently running.

=item B<--help>, B<-h>

Prints usage information and the current options settings and defaults,
then exits.

=item B<--version>, B<-V>

Prints the version of the program and a brief copyright statement, then
exits.  Parse the first line with L<awk(1)> to obtain just the version
number.

=item B<--copying>, B<-C>

Prints the long copying permission statement, then exits.

=back

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

The following options are general options:

=over

=item B<--display>, B<-d> I<DISPLAY>

Specify the display to use (overriding the B<DISPLAY> environment
variable).  The default is the value of the B<DISPLAY> environment
variable.

=item B<--screen>, B<-s> I<SCREEN>

Specify the screen number to use when locating the current window and
workspace.  The default is either specified by the B<DISPLAY>
environment variable (when that variable specifies a screen); otherwise,
all screens will be considered by default.

=item B<--notray>, B<-Y> or B<--tray>, B<-y>

Specifies to install (B<-y>) or not to install (B<-Y>) a system tray
status icon.  The default is normally to install a system tray status
icon.  This option has no effect if a system tray is not running.

=item B<--nodock>, B<-K> or B<--dock>, B<-k>

Specifies to install (B<-k>) or not to install (B<-K>) a withdrawn
windowmaker dock application.  The default is dependent on the
B<XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP> and detection of the running window manager.
This detection is performed to determine whether the desktop environment
and window manager is capable of handling a withdrawn windowmaker dock
application.  The default is to run a dock application if the desktop
environment or window manager supports it.  Specifying this option
overrides the default behaviour.

=back

=head2 SESSION MANAGEMENT OPTIONS

X session management options are not used by another user other than the
X11 Session Manager.  The following options are used by X session
management:

=over

=item B<-clientId> I<CLIENTID>

Specifies the X Session Management client identifier of the previously
running session of B<xde-winlist>.

=item B<-restore> I<SAVEFILE>

Specifies the X Session Management filename of a file to which to save
session information.

=back

=head1 USAGE

=head1 BEHAVIOR

Like the X.org B<xbacklight> program, B<xde-bl-applet> uses the RANDR
X11 extension to control the back-light when the C<BACKLIGHT> or
C<Backlight> output property exists for the CRTC.  When the appropriate
output property exists, B<xde-bl-applet> will register for output
property change notifications to monitor for changes made by other
programs.

In the absence of a back-light RANDR output property, on linux,
F<libudev> will be deployed to control devices of class C<backlight>.
When F<libudev> is supported, devices of class C<leds> and kernel name
C<*::kbd_backlight> will also be controllable with B<xde-bl-applet>.
When F<libudev> is supported, B<xde-bl-applet> will use the F<uevent>
system file-system interface to monitor for changes made by the kernel
and by other programs.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

B<xde-bl-applet> examines the following environment variables:

=over

=item B<USER>

Use to find the user's username.

=item B<HOME>

Used to find the user's home directory.

=item B<DISPLAY>

Used to determine the display on which to run.

=item B<SESSION_MANAGER>

Used to locate a connection to the X11R6 session manager.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

I wrote B<xde-bl-applet> due to the deficiencies and lack of
availability of system tray and window-maker dock application backlight
controls.  The program was originally written in C<perl,> but later
ported to C<C>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<xde-applets(5)>.

=head1 LICENSE

See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution or use the B<--copying> flag
to display copying permissions.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:

