=pod

=head1 NAME

 xde-up-applet - a Upower system tray applet

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 xde-up-applet [ OPTIONS ]
 xde-up-applet --quit [ OPTIONS ]
 xde-up-applet --replace [ OPTIONS ]
 xde-up-applet --help [ OPTIONS ]
 xde-up-applet --version
 xde-up-applet --copying

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xde-up-applet> is a small system-tray and dock-app applet that can be
used to monitor the power (primary battery, auxiliary batteries, AC
power adapters, and laptop lids) to a device.  The state of all
batteries and power sources is also displayed in a tool-tip pop-up.  It
also can be used to play sound theme specification sounds associated
with changes in the power, batteries or lid.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

None.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are accepted:

=head2 COMMAND OPTIONS

When specified, the following options alter the primary operating mode
of the program:

=over

=item [B<--monitor>, B<-m>]

When no command is specified, the default is to run the applet without
replacing an existing instance.  It is an error if an instance is
currently running.

=item B<--replace>, B<-r>

Run the applet, but replace a running instance of the applet.  It is not
an error when no instance is currently running.

=item B<--restart>, B<-S>

Ask a running instance to restart.  It is an error if there is no
instance currently running.  This is useful when the binary has been
upgraded.

=item B<--quit>, B<-q>

Ask a running instance of the applet to quit.  It is not an error if no
instance is currently running.

=item B<--help>, B<-h>

Prints usage information and the current options settings and defaults,
then exits.

=item B<--version>, B<-V>

Prints the version of the program and a brief copyright statement, then
exits.  Parse the first line with L<awk(1)> to obtain just the version
number.

=item B<--copying>, B<-C>

Prints the long copying permission statement, then exits.

=back

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

The following options are general options:

=over

=item B<--display>, B<-d> I<DISPLAY>

Specify the display to use (overriding the B<DISPLAY> environment
variable).  The default is the value of the B<DISPLAY> environment
variable.

=item B<--screen>, B<-s> I<SCREEN>

Specify the screen number to use when locating the current window and
workspace.  The default is either specified by the B<DISPLAY>
environment variable (when that variable specifies a screen); otherwise,
all screens will be considered by default.

=item B<--notray>, B<-Y> or B<--tray>, B<-y>

Specifies to install (B<-y>) or not to install (B<-Y>) a system tray
status icon.  The default is normally to install a system tray status
icon.  This option has no effect if a system tray is not running.

=item B<--nodock>, B<-K> or B<--dock>, B<-k>

Specifies to install (B<-k>) or not to install (B<-K>) a withdrawn
windowmaker dock application.  The default is dependent on the
B<XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP> and detection of the running window manager.
This detection is performed to determine whether the desktop environment
and window manager is capable of handling a withdrawn windowmaker dock
application.  The default is to run a dock application if the desktop
environment or window manager supports it.  Specifying this option
overrides the default behaviour.

=back

=head2 SESSION MANAGEMENT OPTIONS

X session management options are not used by another user other than the
X11 Session Manager.  The following options are used by X session
management:

=over

=item B<-clientId> I<CLIENTID>

Specifies the X Session Management client identifier of the previously
running session of B<xde-winlist>.

=item B<-restore> I<SAVEFILE>

Specifies the X Session Management filename of a file to which to save
session information.

=back

=head1 USAGE

=head1 BEHAVIOR

B<xde-up-applet>, as the name implies, uses the F<UPower> D-BUS
interface to detect and determine the state and condition of various
batteries in the system, including USB-attached battery-operated devices
such as mouse and keyboard, power adapters, as well as the state of the
lid (if any).

=head1 SOUNDS

B<xde-up-applet> plays the following sounds under the following
circumstances (see L<sound(7)>):

=over

=item I<battery-full>

=item B<battery-full-mouse>

=item B<battery-full-keyboard>

The sound used when the battery is fully loaded up.

B<Spoken words:>
"Battery is fully charged."
"Mouse battery is fully charged."
"Keyboard battery is fully charged."

=item B<battery-charging>

=item B<battery-charging-mouse>

=item B<battery-charging-keyboard>

The sound used when the battery begins charging.

B<Spoken words:>
"Battery charging."
"Mouse battery charging."
"Keyboard battery charging."

When the program can distinguish between mouse, keyboard and primary
battery, the device-specific sound is played.

=item I<power-plug>

The power cable has been plugged in.

B<Spoken words:>
"The power cable has been plugged in."

=item I<power-unplug>

The power cable has been unplugged.

B<Spoken words:>
"The power cable has been unplugged."

=item B<battery-discharging>

=item B<battery-discharging-mouse>

=item B<battery-discharging-keyboard>

The sound used when the battery begins discharging.

B<Spoken words:>
"Battery discharging."
"Mouse battery discharging."
"Keyboard battery discharging."

When the program can distinguish between mouse, keyboard and primary
battery, the device-specific sound is played.

=item I<battery-caution>

=item B<battery-caution-mouse>

=item B<battery-caution-keyboard>

The sound used when the battery is nearing exhaustion (below 40%, for example).

B<Spoken words:>
"Caution: battery nearing exhaustion."
"Caution: mouse battery nearing exhaustion."
"Caution: keyboard battery nearing exhaustion."

When the program can distinguish between mouse, keyboard and primary
battery, the device-specific sound is played.

=item I<battery-low>

=item B<battery-low-mouse>

=item B<battery-low-keyboard>

The sound used when the battery is low (below 20%, for example).

B<Spoken words:>
"Low Battery! Low Battery! Low Battery!"
"Low Mouse Battery! Low Mouse Battery! Mouse Low Battery!"
"Low Keyboard Battery! Low Keyboard Battery! Low Keyboard Battery!"

When the program can distinguish between mouse, keyboard and primary
battery, the device-specific sound is played.

=item I<power-unplug-battery-low>

=item B<power-unplug-battery-low-mouse>

=item B<power-unplug-battery-low-keyboard>

The power cable has been unplugged and the battery level is still low.

B<Spoken words:>
"The power cable has been unplugged and the battery level is low."
"The power cable has been unplugged and the mouse battery level is low."
"The power cable has been unplugged and the keyboard battery level is low."

When the program can distinguish between mouse, keyboard and primary
battery, the device-specific sound is played.

Note that, for the mouse and keyboard batteries, when rechargeable, do
not trigger this notification sound when the AC power is pulled (that is
only for the primary battery); therefore, detecting the condition
requires a transition of the mouse or keyboard from the charging to
discharging state while still low.

=item B<battery-empty>

=item B<battery-empty-mouse>

=item B<battery-empty-keyboard>

The sound used when the battery is depleted.

B<Spoken words:>
"Battery empty."
"Mouse battery empty."
"Keyboard battery empty."

When the program can distinguish between mouse, keyboard and primary
battery, the device-specific sound is played.

=item I<lid-close>

The lid has been closed (for laptops, mobile devices).

B<Spoken words:>
"Lid closed."

=item I<lid-open>

The lid has been opened (for laptops, mobile devices).

B<Spoken words:>
"Lid opened."

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

B<xde-up-applet> examines the following environment variables:

=over

=item B<USER>

Use to find the user's username.

=item B<HOME>

Used to find the user's home directory.

=item B<DISPLAY>

Used to determine the display on which to run.

=item B<SESSION_MANAGER>

Used to locate a connection to the X11R6 session manager.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

I wrote B<xde-up-applet> due to the deficiencies and lack of
availability of system tray and window-maker dock application battery
monitors.  The program was originally written in C<perl,> but later
ported to C<C>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<xde-applets(5)>, L<xde-sound(1)>, L<sound(7)>.

=head1 LICENSE

See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution or use the B<--copying> flag
to display copying permissions.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:

