=pod

=head1 NAME

 xde-applets - package of 'C' language system tray and dock applets for XDE

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Provides a set of system tray and dock applets for use with an Arch
Linux based system.  The system tray icons dock apps provided in this
package are as follows:

=over

=item L<xde-au-applet(1)>

Provides a system tray and dock applet for monitoring and controlling
the audio system.
(Only supported on systems that support ALSA or Pulse Audio.)

=item L<xde-av-applet(1)>

Provides a system tray and dock applet for monitoring DDNS and DNS-SD
networks.

=item L<xde-bl-applet(1)>

Provides a system tray and dock applet for monitoring and controlling
display panel back-light and monitor characteristics.
(Requires X11 RANDR extension support for at least minimal operation on
non-Linux systems.)

=item L<xde-bt-applet(1)>

Provides a system tray and dock applet for managing and connecting
bluetooth devices to a computer.

=item L<xde-cpu-applet(1)>

Provides a system tray and dock applet for managing and monitoring CPU
frequency and system performance/power-consumption/cooling trade-offs.

=item L<xde-dh-applet(1)>

Provides a system tray and dock applet for managing and establishing
connections with the DHCP client daemon (L<dhcpcd(8)>).

=item L<xde-hal-applet(1)>

Provides a system tray and dock applet for monitoring HAL (which in turn
monitors devices and system resources).

=item L<xde-id-applet(1)>

Provides a system tray and dock applet for managing and monitoring input
device parameters and characteristics.

=item L<xde-lm-applet(1)>

Provides a system tray and dock applet for monitoring LM sensor output.

=item L<xde-pk-applet(1)>

Provides a system tray and dock applet for monitoring and maintaining
ArchLinux packages.

=item L<xde-sd-applet(1)>

Provides a system tray and dock applet for monitoring L<systemd(1)>
activities.

=item L<xde-up-applet(1)>

Provides a system tray and dock applet for monitoring L<upower(1)>
levels and events.

=item L<xde-wl-applet(1)>

Provide a system tray and dock applet for managing and forming wireless
network connections using L<wpa_supplicant(1)>.

=back

=head1 ARGUMENTS

None.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are accepted by all applets:

=head2 COMMAND OPTIONS

When specified, the following options alter the primary operating mode
of the applet:

=over

=item [B<--monitor>, B<-m>]

When no command is specified, the default is to run the applet without
replacing an existing instance.  It is an error if an instance is
currently running.

=item B<--replace>, B<-r>

Run the applet, but replace a running instance of the applet.  It is not
an error when no instance is currently running.

=item B<--restart>, B<-S>

Ask a running instance to restart.  It is an error if there is no
instance currently running.  This is useful when the binary has been
upgraded.

=item B<--quit>, B<-q>

Ask a running instance of the applet to quit.  It is not an error if no
instance is currently running.

=item B<--help>, B<-h>

Prints usage information and the current options settings and defaults,
then exits.

=item B<--version>, B<-V>

Prints the version of the program and a brief copyright statement, then
exits.  Parse the first line with L<awk(1)> to obtain just the version
number.

=item B<--copying>, B<-C>

Prints the long copying permission statement, then exits.

=back

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

The following options are general options:

=over

=item B<--display>, B<-d> I<DISPLAY>

Specify the display to use (overriding the B<DISPLAY> environment
variable).  The default is the value of the B<DISPLAY> environment
variable.

=item B<--screen>, B<-s> I<SCREEN>

Specify the screen number to use when locating the current window and
workspace.  The default is either specified by the B<DISPLAY>
environment variable (when that variable specifies a screen); otherwise,
all screens will be considered by default.

=item B<--notray>, B<-Y> or B<--tray>, B<-y>

Specifies to install (B<-y>) or not to install (B<-Y>) a system tray
status icon.  The default is normally to install a system tray status
icon.  This option has no effect if a system tray is not running.

=item B<--nodock>, B<-K> or B<--dock>, B<-k>

Specifies to install (B<-k>) or not to install (B<-K>) a withdrawn
windowmaker dock application.  The default is dependent on the
B<XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP> and detection of the running window manager.
This detection is performed to determine whether the desktop environment
and window manager is capable of handling a withdrawn windowmaker dock
application.  The default is to run a dock application if the desktop
environment or window manager supports it.  Specifying this option
overrides the default behaviour.

=back

=head2 SESSION MANAGEMENT OPTIONS

X session management options are not used by another user other than the
X11 Session Manager.  The following options are used by X session
management:

=over

=item B<-clientId> I<CLIENTID>

Specifies the X Session Management client identifier of the previously
running session of the applet.

=item B<-restore> I<SAVEFILE>

Specifies the X Session Management filename of a file to which to save
session information.

=back

=head1 USAGE

=head1 BEHAVIOR

=head1 SOUNDS

All applets provide the ability to play event sounds consistent with the
X Desktop Group (XDG) Sound Theme specification (see L<sound(7)>),
relieving the light-weight window manager of playing these sounds.  The
F<libcanberra> library is used to play sounds where available.  The
following event identifiers are supported by the various applets:  (See
the individual manual pages for the applets for more detailed
explanation of the supported sound event identifiers.)

=over

=item I<battery-caution>

=item I<battery-caution-keyboard>

=item I<battery-caution-mouse>

=item I<battery-charging>

=item I<battery-charging-keyboard>

=item I<battery-charging-mouse>

=item I<battery-discharging>

=item I<battery-discharging-keyboard>

=item I<battery-discharging-mouse>

=item I<battery-empty>

=item I<battery-empty-keyboard>

=item I<battery-empty-mouse>

=item I<battery-full>

=item I<battery-full-keyboard>

=item I<battery-full-mouse>

=item I<battery-low>

=item I<battery-low-keyboard>

=item I<battery-low-mouse>

=item I<device-added>

=item I<device-removed>

=item I<lid-close>

=item I<lid-open>

=item I<power-plug>

=item I<power-unplug>

=item I<power-unplug-battery-low>

=item I<power-unplug-battery-low-keyboard>

=item I<power-unplug-battery-low-mouse>

=item I<thermal-caution>

=item I<thermal-caution-cpu>

=item I<thermal-caution-gpu>

=item I<thermal-cold>

=item I<thermal-cold-cpu>

=item I<thermal-cold-gpu>

=item I<thermal-cool>

=item I<thermal-cool-cpu>

=item I<thermal-cool-gpu>

=item I<thermal-hot>

=item I<thermal-hot-cpu>

=item I<thermal-hot-gpu>

=back

=head1 FILES

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

The applets examine the following environment variables:

=over

=item B<USER>

Use to find the user's username.

=item B<HOME>

Used to find the user's home directory.

=item B<DISPLAY>

Used to determine the display on which to run.

=item B<SESSION_MANAGER>

Used to locate a connection to the X11R6 session manager.

=item B<XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP>

Used to determine whether the desktop environment supports a
windowmaker style dock.

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

Not all of the programs of the original separate perl packages have
been converted successfully to C<C>.

=head1 HISTORY

Many of the tools in the B<xde-applets> package were originally written
as perl programs in separate packages.  One of the problems with
using perl for various things X is that perl has no support for various
libraries such as ICE, X11 session management and startup notification.
These libraries are useful things for a desktop environment.  Therefore,
each of the applets in the separate packages were converted from
perl programs to C<C> language programs.

Many of these applets have variations in the wild from other sources.
The difficulty I found with these applets are as follows:

=over

=item 1.  Not built with consistent toolkit, language or dependency choices.

These applets are C<C>-language programs that use the GTK 2 toolkit for
consistent theme, look and feel.

=item 2.  Linux specific.

Wherever possible, an attempt has been made to allow the applets to
operate, even when Linux-specific support is not available.

=item 3.  Inadequate or restrictive function.

These applets are designed to provide complete management, control and
monitoring of the system aspect for which they are responsible.

=back

Many of the functions provided by these applets are provided by
heavy-weight desktops.  These applets are intended on providing similar
functionality for light-weight window managers that provide either a
system tray or dock to house them.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock L<mailto:bidulock@openss7.org>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<xde-av-applet>,
L<xde-bl-applet>,
L<xde-bt-applet>,
L<xde-cpu-applet>,
L<xde-dh-applet>,
L<xde-hal-applet>,
L<xde-id-applet>,
L<xde-lm-applet>,
L<xde-pk-applet>,
L<xde-sd-applet>,
L<xde-up-applet>,
L<xde-wl-applet>,
L<wpa_supplicant(1)>,
L<dhcpcd(1)>

=head1 LICENSE

See the F<COPYING> file in the distribution or use the B<--copying> flag
to display copying permissions.

=cut

# vim: set sw=4 tw=72 nocin spell spelllang=en_ca:
